Going back. All right, but no one was in that fire.
No one was injured. No, and we felt very fortunate
there. If it hadn't happened in the daytime. But
like my girls that were in their moo-moos, they put
on the worst clothes that anybody could ever... I
had to go shopping before they could go to church
the next day. And you... then where did y'all live
temporarily in the old board quarters that were
just across the valley from sabisa old board house
just yeah and mr peniston at the time he said you
know i always thought that would be the first one to
burn i said oh don't say that but we stayed there
about three weeks and at that time in the board
found out about the house that had belonged to Dean
Brooks who had been dean of arts and sciences and
he'd been long deceased and his widow was in
terrible health and the doctors had her in the
hospital and told her said they weren't going to
release her until she agreed to either have
somebody live with her or go live with somebody and
see they had no children so she had a sister in
Henderson that was in the same circumstance And so
she went to live with her, and it was just most
fortunate for us because we just walked in and
everything was there. And where was this located?
Oh, 115 Lee. Ah. Do you know where, oh, Ann Lou
Jessup lives now? Right there at Southside. Yeah,
just a half block off the George Bush Drive. Now,
you lost almost all of your furniture. Oh, yes. And
what I didn't lose went into storage. And Earl and I
went around and put our name tag on things that were
ours, because so many of the things that were
brought up there for storage belonged to the
university. So we put our name on things that
belonged to us. And I had a nice piano, but it got
kind of scorched a little bit because of having the
grand piano downstairs that belonged to the
university. Mine was up on the stair landing.
I was in George Stewart's music company one day. He
said, by the way, I've almost got that piano
refinished that I bought from the university. I
said, which one did you buy, George? He said,
bought the one that was in the fire. I said, how'd
you do that? That was mine. He said, well, they
advertised it on the surface property sale. He
said, I got it for $76. I said, oh, my word. It had
been $1,050 at the time I bought it. But anyway,
Earl would not get disturbed about small matters.
And I told him, I said, Earl, they sold my piano for
$76, and he almost had it refinished. Anyway, Earl
said, well, tell them to give us the $76. I think
they paid him $75, and we just wrote that up to a
loss. All right, then the new house. Loved it. Who
selected the location? I hate to say it, but Doris
Hannigan and I, we walked the campus one day, and we
decided it didn't need to be right down there in the
middle of where all day and all night you heard
footsteps, that if we put it out there, the
direction facing it, it looked like it was out in
the open. But really, Doris and I, but we didn't say
anything. The board met, and it staked it out
between where Malin Sutherland is and that
corner. and they would have had to cut down a bunch
of the big oak trees and it and it would look out into
the look at the front door you'd look at the
dormitories and at the back you look at something
so I just kind of moaned and groaned about it they
had a stake there but you know they left them there
till the next meeting then they moved them I don't
know I never did know what happened but they put it
exactly where we thought it ought to go now I've
heard that Mr. Rutter is the one that identified
the exact way it would face. Somebody told me that
he said, I want to be the first Aggie to see the
sunrise. I don't know. But you know where he wanted
to put that? Where? Back in Hensel Park, where it
was hidden. I said, Earl, you know those Aggies. I
said, they're going to want to come back to that
campus and say, there's the president's house.
No, he really did. He was serious about it. uh and uh
let's see local architect did the yes dd matthews
good aggie and then gene donahoe was a decorate and
bob bernath oh people would not believe and and
there's some difference opinion on this but i
remember earl saying it was the best bargain the
state of texas had but it cost the state because it
cost the state sixty thousand So, and because, see
the brick, I'm glad you asked. The brick that house
is made from was old brick that was handmade in
Hearn in the early, early 1890s, and they built the
science hall from it. At the time the old house
burned, they'd already decided to tear the
science hall down and put another building there.
So they just reserved enough of that brick to build
the house. So that didn't cost anything. And Bob
Bernath gave all the concrete. And Dr. Boyle, Dow
Chemical, gave all the insulation. Of course, Dee
Dee and Gene Donahoe both donated their services.
R.B. Butler built it at his cost of first rate
materials. I've always thought it is pleasant
looking but not ostentatious. But you know there
was some one architecture professor in
particular that took exception to it he said after
all this is the 1960s not the 1860s he thought it
should be a contemporary and the first plan
Haskell was the most contemporary thing you've
ever seen and we were over there I was at home
without Earl and over there on Lee Street And this
man came and spread them out on the dining room
table. I had to stop myself to keep from gasping. It
was one story, and it looked like Memorial Funeral
Home, only larger. And the window went all the way
up into the eave, you know. And he walked in, and
there was a little square in the center of the
foyer. And I said, what's that? He said, that's
where the heating and air conditioning is, in the
foyer. And on the left hand side was living room,
dining room, breakfast room, kitchen, utility,
garage. And then on the right, there's a long
hallway with bedrooms all the way up and down it. So
I said, well, I'll show it to Earl just the minute he
comes in. Earl had the same opinion of it as I did.
And then we were at a party at Henry Clay's a couple
of weeks later, and D.D. Matthews was there, and he
said, is anything doing on the plans of the
president's house? I said, well, they brought a
set of plans by, but we don't care for them. He said,
what are you having in mind? I said, well, I think
Georgian Colonial is always pretty. And he said,
let me fool around with it and see what I can come up
with. So he drew the plan. And he didn't charge, as I
understand it, and Gene didn't either for their
services. I've always thought it was very
pleasant. Did the children like it? Oh, yeah. We
all enjoyed it. How did the children, what were
their experiences at A&M Solid Aids schools? Did
they ever have anybody pick on them because they
were the sons or daughters? You know, I don't
think, they were not really conscious of the fact
their daddy did what he did. None of my kids. They
were all, you know, just ordinary. Good, good. uh
let's see uh do you remember any good bull aggie
jokes or anything that happened in or around the
president's house or office yeah i remember when
he got burned in effigy in the middle of the night
one night scared me half to death uh because of the
admitting the girls oh where was that right there
In the old house that was on 100 Jones Street, as I
remember the address, and it had this huge oak tree
out in front, and they put a dummy up there and set it
on fire, whatever. But you say good bull. You know,
there's, I think, a couple of books that has that
title, and I was asked to put my stamp of approval on
one, but I read the first bit of it, and I thought,
mm-mm, not going to do that. I would tell you why if
you didn't have that machine going. Do you
remember any things being left on the front porch?
Did anybody ever leave any? Yeah, there's one
horrible. In the new house, I still call it the new
house, some animal they left dead there. But we
just called somebody, and they came and got it. Oh,
and let's see, the dog. Ranger. Ranger. Yeah. Now,
where, how old was Ranger? Did y'all bring Ranger
to College Station? No. We had had one in Brady.
Okay. Earl, when Earl was on that Victory Loan
train roundabout, when he got to Shreveport, I
believe, Louisiana. Everywhere the train would
stop, Earl would see if he could find an English
Bulldog. And you know, I was so dumb, it didn't
occur to me why he always wanted an English
Bulldog. Well, he played on Eden's first football
team, and they were the Bulldogs, and they were
these ugly English Bulldogs. And then when he
coached at Brady, same thing. They were the
English Bulldogs as a mascot. That's why. And
that's the only kind of dog he'd even consider. But
he got that one when he was on this Victor Loom train
tour. And we met the train, the kids and I, Bud and
Ann and I, in San Antonio, and I went ahead We had a
reservation at the St. Anthony's, got them to bed,
and Earl came, rapped on the door, and I opened the
door, and there he was with a soldier behind him
carrying a big box, and I couldn't imagine. He had
not told me what to expect, and it was a little
English bulldog puppy, five or six weeks old. And
it was on a three-hour schedule to eat. And every
three hours, that little dog would yelp. And so I
knew that as soon as I got him back to Brady, I was
going to break that habit, which I did. But he was
just a little over two years old, and a dog poisoner
at Brady got him. He was the first ranger. And they
threw the poison in the yard he was in the yard.
Anyway, then the next one we had, Bud found it in
Austin. He knew that Earl liked that kind of dog.
But we had a little terrier. It's somebody who
couldn't take it to where they were moving in an
apartment. And they gave it to us. It was a cute
little old dog. It wasn't a fine dog or anything,
but we all liked it. And Earl had been out of town and
had Bud driving him And they came in late at night,
and that little old dog always just slept beside
the driveway. And as they came in with the lights,
it jumped up, ran in front of the car, and they
killed it. Bud was driving, and he was just upset it
could be. So he went to Austin, and he found this
bulldog that everybody liked. The kids, you know,
it was such a character. And I guess it was probably
about seven years old, maybe. And... would eat in
the mess hall. Kids would feed him. And he, I think
he died from being overfed. He had a kidney
disease. He died during SCONA one year. And all the
kids, oh, they were all upset and had the biggest
dog funeral I bet there ever was. The whole Corps
was there, which meant everybody, you know. And
all we had to do was to pick the spot where we wanted
him buried. They took over from there. So then that
was just before Christmas. At that time, they had
Skona before Christmas. And so the next spring
then, at senior banquet, I've forgotten who came
to me, but whoever asked me could I. Oh, they had
gone to Earl's office and found out that we were
slated to go to Tarleton for the retirement of E.J.
Howe, who was president. And they came and asked me
if I could make some excuse and not go with Earl to
Tarleton and bring Bob over there to the banquet
because they were going to get this new puppy. And
so that's what I did. And Bob was at the age where he
Didn't want to get out of his blue jeans or just
bored him to death to dress up. But I finally got him
to go with me. And they gave him the dog. And when
that dog was two years old, Earl was home. I mean,
Earl and was home visiting. And Earl said, come on,
let's go out. Let me show you a lot at the lake,
Carter Lake. And Had Davis at that time had the two
lots next to ours where Frank Vandiver lives now.
And so he had a little rowboat. And he asked Bob if he
wanted to take it out, and of course Bob did. And
when Bob got in the boat, the dog jumped in with him.
He rowed out kind of in the center of the lake, and
without any warning, the dog just dived in.
Drowned. Oh, my. And, oh, it just upset Bob
something awful. But anyway, there, that one
went. And so we got that dog buried before they
could have a big funeral. In the days, the present
days here, what did y'all do for relaxation? Not
much. Movies were out of the ordinary. I remember
one night he said, I want us to go to the movie. And
they were showing Darby's Rangers. It was a movie.
And I don't remember us going to any other movie
together. Did he go fishing, hunting? He was not a
hunter. Now, if somebody wanted to go to the ranch
and hunt, maybe he'd go with them, but he was not
much of a hunter. And he didn't fish much, did he?
No. He just didn't have many... And you all didn't
take many long vacation trips. In 1967, it was
simply because he was to go to these places that A&M
had something going. But we did kind of, he took me
along and made, you know, he paid for me. And we did
go around the world at that time because you get a
certain distance away, you might as well go around
the rest of the way. So we did that. We were gone
close to a month. That's the longest.
Do you remember any accomplishments that you
think gave him great pride here? Any changes? Oh,
at A&M? I think the fact that he got the changes made
that he felt like it had to be made for A&M to grow. I
think that was something he was proud of. Okay. But
he didn't live to see what really happened. Right.
Do you remember any things that you think were
frustrations to him that he wished he could have
done? Nope. I can't think of anything offhand. I
don't have any in mind. No, I can't think of any. One
day... I was in his office and he asked me about
Private Slovik. Does that name ring a bell? That
little red book right there. And he told me that
that was just about one of the toughest things he'd
ever had to be a part of. That was a stupid movie,
too. Yeah, the movie was particular. Then in my
last conversation with him, you may have heard me
say, to others, I said to him, nobody but you could
have done all that. And he said, oh, why? And I said,
because nobody could have said you weren't a
Texan, you weren't an Aggie, you hadn't served
your country, that you're one of those
fuddy-duddy PhDs that's just here for a little
while passing through, and that you don't know
Governor Conley and President Johnson. And he
leaned back and smiled and he said, oh, I never
thought about any of that. And I said, yeah, I'm
sure you didn't. He was funny. He just, you know,
Earl just, he didn't have a big ego. No. Now, let's
see. And he didn't play cards with a group of the
buddies, did he? He didn't shoot pool. No, he just
didn't. He didn't relax a whole lot. See that
little red book right there on top?
It should be a mark in there of his message to his
troops after the execution. See, he didn't have
anything to do with the decision. Oh, I know. It had
already been made and approved all the way up to
Eisenhower. Right. No, let's see. There it is.
There it is. No? Did you find his message to his
troops? Yes, ma'am. Read that. It's pretty
straightforward. Oh, yes. uh the uh now he did
enjoy going to the ranch didn't he yeah just to go
yeah drive around yeah uh not very long after he was
home i remember my dad thought he'd probably lost
his mind he bought a d8 tractor and he hired a
operator to
Well, they would go and bulldoze all the way around
all the pastures, you know. And, oh, it did all
kinds of things. And Earl loved nothing better
than get there on the thing and ride it. He loved it.
But he wasn't...
He didn't really... do too much ranching he always
just had somebody hired to do that all right let's
uh we'll go on the on the the finish up now when did
his health begin to decline I didn't really I was
not aware of it you know being around him every day
but uh in let's see in 1969 he was invited by British
TV to be in a film called 10 Men Went to War. And what
it would do, they'd take these 10 men. One of them
was a fellow you talked about hanging on the
steeple in St. Mary's Glace. And Earl's, of
course, was a Point to Hope thing. And they would
take them to where something significant had
happened to them during the war. And then they'd
film them in their present location. And Earl was
real pleased to have them come here before the crew
came here. And he had them observe a final review
and I don't know what all. Oh, I do too know that they
wanted to film his ranch activities, but it was too
far to go to the ranch. It's about a four and a half
hour drive to go out there. And I've got to go out
there if the doctor will let me. 10th of July, we're
going to have the family reunion. It's my turn. So
we're going to do it, but we're not going to do it at
the house. We're going to do it in Menard at the
little country club because there's a pool there
and the little ones like to swim. But I
got wound up and distracted. What was I talking
about? Oh, you were talking about his health and
the crew. Oh, his health. But this film, I didn't
realize, but when I saw the film, and we got a copy of
it after he was gone, he never saw it. They filmed
it, British TV did, for the 25th anniversary of
D-Day, thinking they could get it shown over here
too, but it didn't happen. And I could tell by
listening to his voice there that something was
wrong. So I don't really know when I noticed it sort
of going, but...
When he came in the day that he got sick in the night,
we had the doctor, which is OC, come.
And I thought maybe he got sick because I had the
help doing something else and I fixed Mexican
food. I thought maybe that made him sick. I don't
know. But we put him in the hospital the next
morning. And so...
I guess it was the next night that he had sort of a
stroke, she thought. And O.C. said, I think we
ought to take him to Houston. And I had driven Earl.
See, he had me driving him, too, at the last thing.
And I had driven him down for a meeting of the
Tentacle Executive Board. That was a once-proud
company that's gone down the drain. Oh, it makes me
ill. And I held on to it, wouldn't you know? But
Lupo's wife, Evelyn, was in the hospital at the
medical center. So after Earl got through this
business stuff, we went out to see her. And when we
got there, Earl said, this is one of the finest
medical complexes in the world. So I thought,
that's where we need to go then. So the ambulance,
of course, took him in OC, said he would ride the
ambulance with him and for me not to try to think I
could get there by the time they did. Now that's
March or January? Oh, January. He was there two
months before he died. As you look back yourself on
these A&M years, which friends do you cherish the
most? Well, you know, it's kind of like my
sister-in-law and Brady who died a year or so ago.
She said all of her friends were in the cemetery. So
the ones that I was with the most have passed on. Oh,
but what? You know, the dean's wives. We were sort
of a close-knit group. Others, were there, did you
have any special friends off campus?
I don't know when Ann White and I got started. She's
my running buddy now. Yeah, I think of Ann as a
special friend. Oh, she's a very special friend.
Now, let's see, y'all Methodist? Yeah. And like
I've heard down through the years, some stories
that it helped if you were a Methodist or a
Presbyterian to be in the administration at... at
A&M. We used to call it the Methodist Mafia. Yeah,
that's... Because, see, Gib Geltrude started
with him, and then, I don't know, anybody between
him and Earl. And, of course, Jack Williams was
Methodist. Weren't the Harringtons Methodists?
No, they were Baptists. Oh, that's right. They
were Baptists, yes. Very Baptists. Yes, yes, yes,
yes, yes. Yeah. And the Williams certainly
were... Methodists. All right. Were you aware of
communication between Mr. Rutter and Jack
Williams in 1969? Well, when Jack came down here, I
don't know what the exact title was, the head of
kind of education. Commissioner of Higher
Education. Yeah.
They came over here, and Earl said something to me
about making Jack executive vice president. This
was long before Earl died. Not real long, but last
year or so. And I think Earl, he never told me. But I
really think that he had planned to retire about
the time he and him had their centennial, 76. And he
called me one day and just like he's kind of like my
dad. My dad would have a land deal figured out
before he let my mother in on it. He's going to buy
this ranch.
But Earl sent. Well. Bill Carl, was that his name?
The real estate man? He said, I'm going to send Bill
to pick you up. I want him to show you something.
That's all he told me. And you know where the A&M
setup is out near the Brazos River, where they're
having so much trouble, the people across the road
don't want the pigs? Earl could have bought that
whole thing for 500 an acre. Oh, how beautiful. And
he wanted me to see the house that was there. I guess
he's still there I don't know but anyway he had Bill
Carlton pick me up and take me out there and show me
that house and I guess he would have gone ahead and
bought it if I had been a little more in favor of it
but I said I don't know what you want to do with any
more land I said you don't have time to look after
what we have and see what we did my parents gave us
half of the ranch and then my dad uh, called one day
and said for us to come out and not bring the
children. I thought, what's the matter with him?
He never told us not to bring the children. And it
was because he wanted to talk business. He said,
it's not very often you can buy a piece of land that
joins you. Well, the same amount that we had been
given, see, he gave the two brothers more than he
gave my sister and me, but that was okay.
Anyway, he had deeded this to my younger brother
that had the home place on it, their house and all.
And it did join what we had had. And so we agreed to
buy it before we came home that night. And Earl made
the last payment on that in December and got sick in
January. Just had paid it off. And paid on it 20
years. So at least that was paid off. He would have
gone in debt and left me with a debt of a million
dollars, and I think it would have driven me crazy,
because I don't like debt now. My dad liked debt,
but I didn't like debt.
But what he told me that day has turned out to be
what's happened. It had three miles of
riverfront, and I said, I don't know what you want,
more land? He said, well, I figured that I could
develop the half of it closest to College Station
and make enough off of that to clear the other half.
I said you probably could but when you're going to
have time. So he never did go through it but he was
right about to. And you know there's nice homes on
that part that's close to College Station. I've
always thought to live on the east side of the river
on the high bank looking across the river would be a
very special place. Well I do know this that You
know John Knox and his wife Lou, they bought some
and it was 1,500 acres by the time they bought it so
it was going up. Earl could have bought it at 500
acres. Let's see, can you think of any topics that
we haven't touched on? I think I just shoot the
breeze and don't say much of anything. No, no, no.
This is just special. I want to close by thanking
you and assure you that when we get this typed,
we'll get it back to you for you to edit in whatever
fashion you want. Let's see. Let's make believe
that somebody gave you a million dollars now with
the stipulation that you were to give it to Texas
A&M for whatever reason. cause you want what would
you want them to do with the money well I don't
really know but you know when I was on student
government at that other school in Austin we
passed a resolution requesting that the board
establish a school of fine arts and they did and
it's it's going great guns and I think A&M should
have one well I understand that's part of vision
2020 dream yeah Vision 2020 Dream. Let me close
then by thanking you and my deep appreciation, and
I'll turn this machine off.